---
layout: post
title: "Week 2"
---


Here's a quick post mortem about our first call. It'll be cool to have a record to both see how much we learn and to synthesize our takeaways.


### Quick Summary

**Michael** [battled with changing the behavior of an instrument that ... tough to determine which function effects the other and the source of the context].

**Monte** is working through hosting setup, basic security, and configuration for a WordPress site. Working on building pages with data from an API and programming pages as individual components.

### Takeaways

**Monte's takeaway:**
>Taking a look at other programming paradigms and perspectives is more useful than specific, language specific tasks.

**Mike's takeaway:**
>A great deal of energy is spent on initial setups, configurations, and research on how best to implement something you want to do. It's a great idea to become accustomed to tools and resources that create the most efficiency. After all, a programmers worst enemy, like us all, is time.
### Extras

[Digital Gold: Bitcoin and the Inside Story of the Misfits and Millionaires Trying to Reinvent Money](https://www.amazon.com/Digital-Gold-Bitcoin-Millionaires-Reinvent/dp/0062362496)
>The book is as fascinating from a business perspective as it is technological. It begins with the mysterious beginnings of Bitcoin (its anonymous founder Satoshi Nakamoto) and its connections with a early tech group called the Cypherpunks. Much of the early fascination with Bitcoin and its underlying blockchain was this group's obsession with cryptography. From these underground beginnings, the book shows Bitcoin changing into the world it inhabits today that is populated by business people, entrepreneurs, tech geeks, and yes, still cryptography lovers.

>Believers from Beijing to Buenos Aires see the potential for a financial system free from banks and governments. More than just a tech industry fad, Bitcoin has threatened to decentralize some of society’s most basic institutions.

[Visualizing Garbage Collection in Ruby and Python](http://patshaughnessy.net/2013/10/24/visualizing-garbage-collection-in-ruby-and-python)

>I think the garbage collector is the beating heart of your application. Just as your heart provides blood and nutrients to the rest of the your body, the garbage collector provides memory and objects for your application to use. If your heart stopped beating you would die in seconds. If the garbage collector stopped or ran slowly – if it had clogged arteries – your application would slow down and eventually die!

[Take My Money Episode of Codenewbie Podcast](http://www.codenewbie.org/podcast/take-my-money)

Talking about the technical side of accepting payments online and using third party services to handle transactions.

>Getting paid using Stripe or PayPal is only the beginning of creating a fully-functional e-commerce application. You also need to handle failure cases, inventory management, administration, security, reporting, and be compliant with legal issues. Manage one-time transactions and recurring subscriptions, handle inventory management, issue discounts and refunds, mitigate administration and compliance issues, and test your code to ensure your customers have a smooth, hassle-free experience.


[Floating Point Arithmetic](http://floating-point-gui.de/)

Using various [rounding modes](http://floating-point-gui.de/errors/rounding/) to handle floating point arithmetic.

>There are different methods to do rounding, and this can be very important in programming, because rounding can cause different problems in various contexts that can be addressed by using a better rounding mode. The most common rounding modes are:

**Rounding towards** zero - simply truncate the extra digits. The simplest method, but it introduces larger errors than necessary as well as a bias towards zero when dealing with mainly positive or mainly negative numbers.
**Rounding half away from zero** - if the truncated fraction is greater than or equal to half the base, increase the last remaining digit. This is the method generally taught in school and used by most people. It minimizes errors, but also introduces a bias (away from zero).
**Rounding half to even also known as banker’s rounding** - if the truncated fraction is greater than half the base, increase the last remaining digit. If it is equal to half the base, increase the digit only if that produces an even result. This minimizes errors and bias, and is therefore preferred for bookkeeping.


Cheatsheet for [Ruby](http://floating-point-gui.de/languages/ruby/) and [Python](http://floating-point-gui.de/languages/python/)



That's it for this week!
